.TH "freecell" 6
.SH NAME
freecell \- A console implementation of the solitaire game Freecell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B freecell
.IR "" "[" "options" "] [" "game-number" "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is
.BR freecell ,
a console (ncurses) version of the popular solitaire game.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-s, --suites=ABCD"
Configures four characters as suite symbols.
.IP "-d, --delay=200000"
Sets a delay (in microseconds) for animations.
.IP "-S, --solver"
Use fc-solve to check if board is solvable.
.IP "-e, --exitcode"
Return exit code 1 if game was not won.
.IP "-i, --instant"
Don't play metamove animations.
.IP "-H, --highlight"
Highlight next card to move to foundation.
.IP "-h, --help"
Display usage information.
.IP "-V, --version"
Display version information.
.SH THE CARDS
In this game, playing cards are illustrated using a number or letter (the value
of the card) followed by a suite symbol. Card values are displayed as follows:

	K	King (13)
.br
	Q	Queen (12)
.br
	J	Jack (11)
.br
	T	Ten (10)
.br
	2-9	Corresponding numeric value
.br
	A	Ace (1)
.br

By default, suites are represented with these characters:

	S	Spades
.br
	H	Hearts
.br
	C	Clubs
.br
	D	Diamonds
.br

You may configure freecell to use other characters, using the --suites option.
.SH GAMEPLAY
The aim of the game is to move all cards to the foundations in the upper right
corner.

You may only move one card at a time. The foundations accept cards of
increasing value within each suite (you may place
.B "2D"
on top of
.BR "1D" ")."
The columns accept cards of falling value, alternating colour (you may place
.B "2D"
on either
.B "3S"
or
.BR "3C" ")."
The four free cells in the upper left corner will accept any
cards, but at most one card per cell.
An empty column will also accept any card.

To move a card, type the name of the column (a-h) or cell (w-z) which contains
the card, followed by the name of the destination cell or column. Press the
enter key for the destination in order to move the card to one of the
foundation piles. As a convenience, you may also move a card to an unspecified
free cell, by substituting the space bar for the destination.

While you may only move one card at a time, you can use free cells and empty
columns as temporary buffers. That way, it is possible to move a range of cards
from one column to another, as long as they are already in an acceptable
order. The program can do this automatically for you: Prefix your command
with the number of cards to move, e.g. 3ab will move 3 cards from column a to
column b and requires 2 free cells or empty columns.

When it is deemed safe to do so, cards will automatically be moved to the
foundation piles.

Almost every game is solvable, but the level of difficulty can vary a lot.

.B Good luck, and don't get too addicted!
.SH SEE ALSO
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freecell
.br
http://www.linusakesson.net/
.SH AUTHOR
Modern freecell was invented by Paul Alfille in 1978.
.br
This implementation of freecell was written from scratch by Linus Akesson
<linus@linusakesson.net> in 2007.
.br
Improved and extended fork was made by Vitaly Ostrosablin
<tmp6154@yandex.ru> in 2021.
